---
layout: post
title: Deploying a node.JS app to AWS EC2
date: 2024-09-20 11:59:00-0400
description:
tags: cloud
categories: code
related_posts: false
giscus_comments: true
toc:
  beginning: true
published: false
---

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
> ### THIS BLOG POST IS IN PROGRESS
{: .block-danger }
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## **Introduction**

You’ve successfully built your application, and now you’re looking forward to deploying it! This blog covers the basics of **AWS EC2**, setup, and deployment.
<br>
<br>

## **Setup an AWS EC2 Instance**

<br>
### **What even is EC2?**

**EC2** stands for **Elastic Cloud Compute** and is a virtual machine where you can deploy your applications. What's so cool about it? It allows for easy **scaling** to handle more requests coming into your application when the need arises, making it easy to handle varying demand. It’s also quite versatile, making it a great choice for developers.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog1/balancer.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

<br>
### **Why are we using it?**

It’s simple, ease of use, and quick setup makes it a great first choice for those getting started with development. Above all, it's cheap because of **“on-demand” scaling** helping to only pull out the big guns when absolutely required. Alternatively, we could also use an **Azure VM** or the **Google Cloud Engine (GCE)** to deploy our app, which I will cover in later blogs.

<br>
### **Getting Started**

Let's set up the AWS instance and connect to it via **SSH**.

#### 1. Login to your AWS account (Root User)

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog1/awslogin.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<br>

#### 2. Launching an instance

Under the **EC2**, choose **launch instance**. For this application, we will use **AWS Linux** as our OS Image due to its tight integration with AWS and ease of use. Alternatively, you could also use **Ubuntu** but will have to make some changes (`apt-get` vs. `yum`) for the next steps during installing dependencies.

Choose **t2.micro** for instance type – simplest instance, and is very cost effective. If your application is quite large and compute intensive, shift to **t2.medium** for ensuring enough memory capacity.

We create a new **key pair**, which will enable us to connect to our instance through **SSH** and get started with setting up. A `.pem` file will be downloaded to your local machine.

  <div class="row mt-3">
      <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
          {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog1/awskeypair.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
      </div>
  </div>

We allow all traffic, so we can access the instance from anywhere. We will be adding some inbound rules later on to make our port accessible to the public DNS.

  <div class="row mt-3">
      <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
          {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/blog1/awsnetwork.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
      </div>
  </div>

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
> You've successfully launched an instance!
{: .block-tip }
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### 3. Connecting to Instance (SSH)
